Please welcome Jon Summers,
QuickTime Java Engineering.
Thank you and welcome to
session 507 QuickTime for Java.
Now today, we're going to be taking
you through some of the new
features in QuickTime for Java,
specifically those that
support QuickTime 5 features.
But before we do that,
I want to move on to show you, basically,
the QuickTime for Java is
built of two major components.
QuickTime,
which is Apple's proprietary media
and Michael Higgins.
The architecture is mature,
cross-platform, flexible.
It has a rich set of services which
support industry standard media formats,
such as dynamic media,
that is audio and video,
and a wealth of still image
importers and exporters,
and also interactive media,
such as QuickTime VR and wired sprites.
Java from Sun Microsystems is a modern
object-oriented interpreted language.
You can deploy Java cross-platform
as standalone applications,
Java applications and applets.
So that briefly is the
basis of QuickTime for Java.
This is what it's built on.
Now, the actual implementation
of QuickTime for Java.
QuickTime for Java is a cross-platform
Java class library accessing the
native QuickTime C libraries.
It has a core layer,
which is an object model that
represents the QuickTime C API.
This is represented as a set
of Java classes which have been
grouped into logical packages.
Also,
QuickTime for Java has a sophisticated
application framework of abstracted
media services to simplify the
integration of QuickTime and Java.
QuickTime for Java delivers on the
promise of Java in that it has an
identical API across all supported
platforms and operating systems.
You can write Java applications
which use QuickTime for Java on
any of the supported applications
and deliver that jar to run on
all the supported platforms.
So in brief,
QuickTime Java architecture relies
on core services from QuickTime,
from Java, and from the operating system.
and the QuickTime for Java 5,
which is the version of QuickTime for
Java shipping in Apple's
current version of QuickTime,
that is QuickTime version 5,
supports a new,
brand new operating system, Mac OS X.
with Apple's implementation
of Java 2 Standard Edition.
As well, QuickTime for Java 5 continues
to support classic Mac OS.
with Macintosh Runtime
for Java 2.1 and above,
and this is based on
Java Development Kit 118.
QuickTime for Java 5 also continues
to support and has enhanced support
for Microsoft operating systems,
the Windows 95, 98 ME family,
and Windows NT and 2000
family operating systems,
and require to have installed a
Sun-compliant Java runtime edition,
1.1, and also will run with Java 2.
QuickTime for Java 5 has
specific enhancements for
this new Java 2 environment.
There are improvements to
the Java 2 security model,
and I believe there is a session tomorrow
if you're interested in Java security.
Specific enhancements in QuickTime for
Java have been changes due to
issues with garbage collection
with the hotspot client compiler.
So QuickTime for Java 5 has new support
for the new features in QuickTime 5.
Some of the new features in
QuickTime 5 is the XML package.
QuickTime for Java has an XML parser
package which allows you access,
and we'll talk about this later.
and QuickTime 5 also has a new
broadcast API and QuickTime for
Java 5 supports QuickTime's
broadcast API with the presentation
package and Michael will give you a
demonstration of that this afternoon.
As well, QuickTime for Java 5 has full
coverage of the QuickTime 4 API.
All of the QuickTime functionality
up to and including QuickTime 5 are
available through QuickTime for Java.
As well, this release of QuickTime for
Java 5 has additional functionality
and enhanced services.
Now I'd like to go on to a key
piece of multimedia presentations,
which is time-based
multimedia presentations.
We can think of a movie time
base as having two particular
has a rate, which is the rate at which
the time base is moving,
and also a current time, which is the,
for a movie time base,
it's the place in time
where the playhead is.
QuickTime for Java implements
time-based callbacks so that you can
receive notification in your QuickTime
Your QuickTime for Java application,
that is an application written in
Java and utilizing QuickTime for Java,
You can receive notification
of time-based events.
As you can see from the diagram,
when the playhead reaches a
certain time in the movie,
you can execute your own Java code.
Now, what are these time-based events?
They can execute at a certain time,
that is,
at a certain time within the movie,
at intervals.
You may want to have a ticker
in the movie so that you
get notified every second.
and also you can have callbacks
which fire at extremes,
so you can get notification
that your movie has finished.
and you can also have callbacks
for notification of rate change.
That is when the movie starts,
when the movie stops,
Now, when a movie starts playing,
the rate change goes from zero.
A rate change of zero means
the movie is not playing.
To a rate change of one means
the movie is moving forward.
at normal play rate.
To play the movie backwards,
you would change the rate to minus one.
Now the reason why I'm going on about
time bases is that because they've
been reworked in QuickTime for Java 5,
they are now much more efficient.
and Michael C.
Coyne,
they are now implemented using high
priority native threads for efficiency.
They deliver your Java code executing
very close to the time that the
callback was actually fired.
Also, this rework means that it's
and QuickTime callbacks now have
an implicit idling mechanism.
You no longer have to have a
timer tasking thread polling
for when these events occur.
So now I'd like to move on to the demo
to actually show you QuickTime callbacks.
Here we have on 10 a
Java application written which
utilizes QuickTime for Java.
Specifically,
this application has been written
to have a number of callbacks.
The first callback I'll
demonstrate is time jumping.
As you can see in the console,
we can find out where the
user scrubs the controller to.
Now we will start the movie
and you will notice that we
have a rate callback change.
I'll just stop the movie.
A rate callback change.
[Transcript missing]
Time-based implementation.
You'll see the accuracy.
We can't measure the latency from the
time that the callback is actually called
to the time that your Java code executes.
We can't measure it on 10.
So we'll restart the movie.
And as you can see,
we have time-based callback
being called once a second.
is out of interest.
This has a time scale of about
20 million years per second.
This is a fluid dynamics simulation
of the collision of two galaxies.
And if we stop the movie,
right goes to zero.
Start the movie again.
Now, the movie has stopped and
two events have occurred.
We have an extremes callback to
say that the movie has reached
the end of the time base.
We also have another rate callback,
a rate callback so the movie has stopped,
the rate has gone to zero.
I think we'll go back to slides now.
[Transcript missing]
Some advice for actually using
time-based callbacks is that time-based
callbacks require explicit cleanup.
That is,
on exit you must call cancel and cleanup.
Cancel will cancel the callback
and cleanup will remove
system resources in use.
If you want to stop or just
reschedule the callback,
use cancel.
Use the cancel method
of time-based class.
For more sophisticated timing services,
you should really look at
the application framework,
where there are some very nice classes,
such as the timer class and its
target client ticklish objects.
And also,
if you want to make a presentation
which has different elements,
which are time-slave, that is,
the rate of one object will
control the rate of all the other
and other media objects
within that presentation.
The application framework has some
very nice services for time-slaving.
Now I'd like to introduce a new feature,
an enhancement of the
QuickTime VR instance
methods in QuickTime Java 5.
Specifically,
we are supporting the interaction
properties of QuickTime VR 5.
These new interaction properties deal
with panorama mouse click properties.
This is the time from when the time or
the number of pixels moved before the...
and the mouse click gesture becomes
an ordinary panning gesture.
That is, the mouse click will time out
and the This is a multiplier
factor for the pan and tilt.
You'll see this quite well in the demo,
that basically,
if the user is panning across the screen,
is using the mouse to pan
across a panorama and you
change the pan tilt speed,
the panorama will speed up or slow down.
Similarly for VR objects,
you have a mouse motion scale,
which allows you to change the number
of pixels the user must move the mouse
in order to either rotate the object.
And also we have a getter
and setter for zoom speed.
You can change the zoom speed,
which is the zoom in on the Z axis.
For QuickTime VR objects,
they have two modes.
They have a rotation or translation.
That is,
normally you can rotate a VR object
or you can put it into translation
mode so that if it's zoomed in,
the
The user interaction will be to
move that single image rather
than rotating the object.
And in QuickTime for Java,
We give you access to the two properties,
translate on mouse down,
which allows you to change the
translate or rotate property,
the property to either
rotate or translate,
or the nudge mode.
Now,
this is similar to the mouse down mode,
except it works with the arrow keys.
And there we have three states, rotate,
translate, or the same as the
translate on mouse down.
Now I'd like to show you a demonstration
of a QuickTime VR with these properties.
Now here we have a
QuickTime VR and first of all,
the Java application has
printed out some information.
First of all,
we've installed an intercept proc.
We've been able to do this with
QuickTime for Java 4 and this is
one of the powerful things about
QuickTime for Java is it's very easy
to create great dynamic functionality
within a presentation of VR.
We also have another callback,
which is the mouseover proc,
and this is basically the one where
we'll be getting and setting and
checking some of these new properties.
Now the pan/tilt speed,
that is the factor that multiplies the
user's interaction with the panorama,
is, when we come into the panorama,
is set to 5, which is the default.
And just for reference,
the field of view is almost 40 degrees.
When we enter a hotspot, as you can see,
Michael has entered a hotspot before,
that the speed would go up to 8.
So that if we pan slowly
towards this hotspot,
when it enters the hotspot,
we'll have a notification
and we'll increase the speed.
and when we leave the hotspot,
it will slow back down again.
The field of view has not been changed.
I'll go back in because
I also have another feature
More functionality in this
demonstration that when we click,
we zoom in,
and when we leave the hotspot,
it reverts to normal.
So here we have a hotspot,
this top hotspot number 74,
where if we entered the
hotspot while panning,
the speed would increase again.
So we'll do that.
As we enter the hotspot,
we go past it quite quickly.
[Transcript missing]
I'll just demonstrate that basically
I'm going to click in this hotspot
and we have a timeout of 30 ticks,
half a second.
We can change that property.
I haven't done this in this
particular demonstration.
So here we have another hotspot,
and this one will be a very slow hotspot,
so we'll pan into it quite quickly.
and the user experiences that
over that particular hotspot,
that's an important hotspot.
We've slowed down.
Okay, can we return to slides please?
Now this sort of functionality is very
easy to achieve with QuickTime for Java.
I have some demonstration,
some of the source code.
This is very simple source code.
Basically,
We create a QtVR instance using
the movie controller and getting
the QtVR track from the movie.
Then we set a mouse over proc.
And the execute function
which is an override of the
QtVR mouse over hotspot.
Implementation has two actions.
Basically it looks at the action selector
coming in and when we enter a hotspot,
we set the pan/tilt speed to
some function of the hotspot ID.
This is a very quick demo.
Else, when we leave the hotspot,
we reset the pan/tilt speed to normal.
Now I'd like to move on and let
Michael tell you about the improved
support for the Sound Manager.
Thank you, Jon.
I love having the clicker.
Okay, today we're going to talk about
some of the new sound manager
support in QuickTime for Java 5.
This has been greatly enhanced
from our previous release to
include the additional support of
asynchronous recording and playback.
We've also provided the functionality
of being able to access the
equalizer for the sound channel,
so you can get the values of
the treble and bass equalizers.
And also you can play
with level metering,
turn that on and off,
get the status of that.
Now keep in mind that this is
the classic sound manager support
that is built into QuickTime.
It's not the same as the core audio API,
which is native in Mac OS X.
There are some other sessions
later on in the show.
In fact, there are some today and
a few tomorrow on that.
And that API is accessible from Java.
However, since it's X only,
we recommend that if you do need to
do cross-platform sound development,
that you use our sound
manager support in QuickTime.
Since we've added a whole
lot of new functionality,
which makes it really nice to use.
So what have we done in
the new Sound Manager?
We've added an extended
scheduled sound header class.
This allows you to send
buffered sound commands.
We've also added an SC status class,
and with that you can get the
status of the sound channel.
You can determine whether it's busy,
whether there's a sound playing,
and other operations.
We also have an SI completion class that
enables you to register a completion
routine that will get called upon
completion of asynchronous recording,
so that your application can be
notified when recording is complete,
and then save that sound somewhere
or play it back to the user.
And finally,
we've added some additional constants
in the sound constants class to
expose some of those new constants
that weren't previously available.
And these include things
like new sound commands,
as we're going to talk about.
So how do you use the new Sound Manager?
And what else have we done?
We've enhanced the sound channel
class significantly to provide support
for doCommand and also doImmediate.
The doCommand, when you call that,
places a sound command,
such as a callback command or a
buffer command or a playback command,
into the command queue and
executes that command immediately.
That's the doImmediate call.
Whereas the doCommand will place that
command into the queue of commands
to be executed by the sound channel.
And when the sound channel has
executed all its prior queued commands,
then it will go ahead and
execute that one as well.
So the primary difference between
doImmediate is that it skips that.
Do you want to go ahead and do that?
and the Q versus do command,
which places the command
at the end of the queue.
We also have support for
a new callback command,
which we'll talk about in detail later,
which enables you to get a callback
when your command is executed.
And we also have some new informational
accessors that I alluded to previously,
the get level metering on and off,
and also a set level metering on and off.
So let's look at how you
use these in your code.
First thing that we're going to talk
about is recording a sampled sound.
And these slides are not in full detail.
We do have some excellent sound
examples as part of the SDK.
So if you really want to take
a look at this in detail versus
this high-level discussion,
please go see that.
And we'll show you where to download
that at the end of our presentation.
So the first thing you need
to do to record a sample sound
is prepare the sound channel.
And the way you do that is you
create a new sound input device
by calling new SPV device and
passing in whatever permissions are
appropriate for that type of device.
For example,
most microphones you can't write to,
so you'd want to just do read with that.
Also, you need to allocate a new sound
channel and pass the number of channels,
the rate, the sample size,
and the compression type of
the sound that you'll be using.
And you can also just retrieve
that from the sound input.
device if you want,
so you can get the defaults for that.
So it's actually pretty easy.
Once you've created the sound channel,
you create a new sound
input parameter block,
which you need to pass in that,
you need to create the new SPB,
pass in the device that you'll be using,
and then the buffer size,
which is the size that you're
going to use for the data,
and also the sound handle.
You need to pass in where that's going
to be stored in the sound handle.
Then you can optionally specify a
completion proc that will get called
upon completion of the recording,
and you call that by overwriting
the SI completion class and then
overwriting the execute method.
So once you've done all that and
you want to record the sound,
simply call record from your SPB object,
and then the sound will start recording.
So that's recording.
Let's look at playback.
To playback the sound asynchronously,
which is the more interesting case,
you need to prepare a sound command.
In this case,
we're demonstrating how to use
it with the buffer command,
which will do asynchronous
callback versus the play command,
which doesn't.
So you create a new sound command object,
specifying the command
that you wish to use.
And then in the case of a buffer command,
you also need to set the
buffer that you'll be playing
from and give that to command.
So you do that by calling setBuffer,
and then finally call
doCommand on the sound channel,
and that will place that buffer
command at the end of the
queue in the sound channel.
If you wish to schedule a callback,
you need to create a sound command,
excuse me, a callback command,
and put that into the channel as well.
But before you do so,
when you allocate the sound channel,
you specify the sound callback
to be used at that time.
So a good example of reasons why
you'd want to do this is if you need
a sound in the background that's
going to loop over and over again.
So you could create a sound callback
that would be placed on the end of the
queue after a sound had been playing.
When the play command
popped off the queue,
your callback command would get fired,
and that could put a new
sound play or sound buffer.
So you could put another command
into the queue and also put another
callback command onto the queue,
and so that would continually loop.
So that's pretty much all
there is for playing a sound.
When you're using sounds,
there are a couple of things that you
need to be aware of and cognizant of.
And the first is that you need to make
sure that you dispose of all your sound
channels when you're done playing them.
You can do that by calling
disposeQtObject on the sound channel.
And if you like,
you can do that directly from a callback.
It's very important to do that as
opposed to waiting for the garbage
collector to clean you up because
that can be a lot of native data.
Additionally, if you have any completion
routines that you've specified and
registered with the SPB device,
go ahead and remove those as well
by calling removeCompletionProc.
And finally,
there are a couple of garbage collection
issues you need to keep in mind.
If you have sound objects on the stack,
they can go out of scope,
so be aware of your
use of local variables.
SoundManager isn't happy if buffers
for sound that's supposed to be
playing get garbage collected on you.
Also, make sure that you dispose
of all your sound channels
when you're done playing them.
You can't dispose of any objects
that you use within a callback before
you dispose of the callback itself.
And keeping in mind those guidelines
will make sure that your experience
using audio is a sound one.
Oh, I know that was bad.
Couldn't help it.
Okay, so now we're going to look at a
new area of QuickTime for Java 5,
which is the presentation API.
and a bit of an overview first.
For those of you that haven't seen any
of the previous QuickTime sessions,
there was a presentation section.
And that showed the new API available
with QuickTime 5 that we implemented
in QuickTime for Java as well.
This enables you to broadcast
from any source that is
sequence grabber compatible,
audio devices such as two turntables
and a microphone or any DV audio source,
also video devices as well.
And you can specify that that
broadcast is unicast or multicast,
going to a single machine or to a
number of machines on the same network.
And the broadcast is also user
configurable via settings dialog,
which we'll see in the demo to follow.
So let's look at how this
works from a client side.
The broadcaster is a machine
that has a set of devices that
are connected to the network.
It has some sort of device
such as a camera connected.
And it also specifies,
it has an SDP file,
which stands for stinky dead pigeon.
No, actually it doesn't.
It's the stream data protocol.
And that's a standard for
specifying how streaming will
be sent across the network.
And so we use that standard as
part of QuickTime since we are
a standards based technology.
So once you specify the data,
you can go to the next slide.
So let's look at the broadcast machine.
So the broadcast machine is a
machine that is used to configure the
SDP file to configure your broadcast.
Then those packets are going to go out
onto the network and onto any machines
which are also viewing the same SDP file.
And in this case,
the illustration shows that
those machines are just using the
QT player to open the SDP file.
And that doesn't have to be a player.
It can be any application that
is capable of opening a movie.
So let's look at the
broadcaster in more detail now.
On that broadcast machine,
we have a video system.
We have a video camera,
which is the source of the broadcast.
That goes through the sequence
grabber into the sourcer object.
We also have a presentation that
encapsulates all these various
units within the broadcaster.
And the presentation you can think
of is kind of like the top level
component or a movie that contains
all these other objects within it.
That's configured by the SDP file,
which specifies whether there's audio,
whether there's video,
whether it's unicast or multicast.
What the sample rate is,
what the compression type of
that broadcast is going to be.
Once that is specified,
that's going to affect the packetizer,
which is responsible for taking the
data from the sourcer object and
splitting it up into little packets
that it can then send out on the
network in an efficient manner.
So that packetizer is going
to be affected greatly by the
compression type that's being
used by the sourcer component.
For example,
there are packetizers that are
specific to Sorenson that know a lot
more about its format and can more
efficiently send out those packets.
And finally, we have the streamer,
which is required for actually
sending the packets out on the wire.
So that's how the presentation works.
and how do we map this
into QuickTime for Java?
We have a presentation
API that's been placed in the
QuickTime.streaming package,
and we represent that
presentation or streaming
session by a presentation object.
The streaming session is configurable
again via settings dialog,
which we'll show you
in our demo coming up.
And we have a streamlined
API available now,
and we'll be releasing additional
features of the API in the future
to allow you to do things other than
just using the sequence grabber.
Oops, skipped a slide,
so let's go over to the demo.
And we have a video camera here.
It's going to be digitizing all
you happy people in the audience.
So what I'm going to do first is I'm
running a QuickTime for Java applet,
and I'm selecting an SDP file,
which as I mentioned previously,
is simply just a text file.
And at that point then,
the settings dialog is going to come up.
Let me move that onto the
monitor so you can see it.
And on the top side you see
the settings for the audio,
including the component
that that's coming from,
which is actually in this case
coming from the sequence grabber.
I'm going to go ahead and edit
the sound settings here to,
since I don't really care about audio,
I'm going to cut that down a little bit.
So that's the component responsible
for compression and then on the
right side you see the packetizer
that's going to use to send that out.
And I'm just going to use
the QuickTime packetizer.
You'll note that it also is recognized
that I'm sending an 8-bit sound so
there's a special packetizer for that.
However,
since my .sdp file specified that
the packetizer would be QuickTime,
I need to make sure that
I use the same packetizer.
Otherwise the client will be looking for
a different packetizer than what's being
broadcast and it won't pick that up.
And you can see that I'm
using a DV video source.
And I'm going to go ahead and turn
down the quality a little bit.
That's fine.
And let's increase the keyframe frequency
slightly so we'll actually see some data.
And then I'm going to
go ahead and hit OK.
And we'll look at the broadcast.
So once I click the Start button,
you can see now
This is what we're
digitizing from the camera.
And on the other machine,
we're going to go ahead now
and open the same SDP file up.
and the QuickTime player,
so you can see what's actually
being broadcast across the network.
And this is a multicast presentation,
and as such,
If more than one machine could go
ahead and receive that broadcast.
And as you can see,
we have a little lens flare going on.
Somebody in the back waving fiendishly,
feverishly, maybe fiendishly as well.
So there we go.
We're doing a live broadcast from a
DV camera plugged in through a FireWire
port from a QuickTime for Java app,
all on 10 and being received on a--
Are you receiving that too, Jon?
Oh, no, he's just waving.
Okay.
Anyway, people get so crazy when there
are video cameras on them.
Alright,
so I'm going to go ahead and stop
that now and go back to slides.
A live presentation on a Java machine.
Can't do that without QuickTime.
And that's the beauty
of QuickTime for Java.
It gives you a very elegant,
simplified interface that lets you to do
some very powerful features that would
take tons and tons and tons of code.
We're looking at the code now.
Natively, this would take thousands
of lines of code,
but in QuickTime for Java,
and in the example sent out on the SDK,
you'll see that there's really
only a couple of lines of code,
since we've taken care of a
lot of the details for you.
You can specify advanced modes,
but you're not required to.
So let's look at the presentation API.
To create a presentation,
you can call presentation from
file and specify an SDP file.
You can also specify an
XML file if you like.
And then your presentation parameters,
which is an object that lets
you specify the sound rate,
etc., and data rate.
Then if you like,
you need to show your settings dialog
by calling new settings dialog and
pass in your presentation object.
As the note says,
and as I previously mentioned,
I have to reiterate that
the user is responsible,
the broadcaster,
for choosing a setting that makes
sense based on what the SDP file is
specifying for the type of broadcast.
Since the client that's using that
SDP file is only going to look for
a specific format of packetizer.
And if you choose a different one, well,
the client's necessarily... That's
not the broadcast I'm looking for,
so it won't find it.
So make sure you do that correctly.
To prepare and start a presentation,
you simply pre-roll your presentation
and then call start on it.
There's also a callback that you can
receive that QuickTime for Java does
support that will allow you to determine
if the pre-roll has actually occurred.
That can be important if you have
a slow device that you're grabbing
from that just isn't ready yet.
Once it's ready, you call start.
And to stop, you call stop.
It's as easy as it can get.
So, oh, but there is a little bit more.
Sorry, forgot.
You do have to actually set up an idler.
You can create a new task thread
that's going to be responsible
for calling presentation idle.
And that's the mechanism that will go
ahead and keep the sequence grabber
running and go ahead and actually do
all the compression and packetization.
And we recommend that you
do that in a task thread.
And you can specify in the
task thread both a string name,
which will allow you to easily
recognize it in a debugger,
and also a rate of which that
thread is going to get serviced.
In this case,
we chose 20 milliseconds because
that seems to be a good value.
And then when you
override your task method,
you just call idle.
And that's really all you need to
do to do a live broadcast from any
source supported by the sequence
grabber in QuickTime for Java.
Again, we encourage you to look at the
SDK code later if you're interested.
And now I'm going to turn the
presentation over to Jon Summers again,
who's going to talk about
transition enhancements.
Thank you, Michael.
MICHAEL HANSEN: Thank you, Jon.
QuickTime for Java 5 now
supports enhanced transitions.
To go back,
transitions are QuickTime effects.
QuickTime effects architecture
has a large number of effects that
you can apply to still images,
that is a single source,
and this is represented
as a QuickTime filter,
a Qt filter in Qt for Java,
or it can be applied
between multiple sources,
a QuickTime transition.
The main enhancement has been
to the parameter dialogue.
In Qt Java 4, we supported editing
and the creation of a
QuickTime parameter,
QuickTime out of container,
which contains the data
for a QuickTime effect.
And in QuickTime for Java 5,
we've extended the parameter dialog so
that now you can re-edit the parameters.
This is an important consideration
for some of our developers.
And as well,
we have allowed you to customize
the dialog by putting in
optional preview pictures.
Another new feature of QuickTime for
Java 5 is an enhancement
to the AtomContainer class,
specifically the insertChildCall.
We've extended the number of
data types to cover all the
data types found in QuickTime.
So we have all the simple
data types of byte,
short, int, and float, and as well,
object data types,
which will cover all of the other data
types that you'll need to actually
create QuickTime atom containers.
For tween-type atoms,
where the data is actually
an array of two elements,
that is a start and end sample,
we have a new class, tweenData,
which extends QT byte objects so it can
be used directly with the insert child.
Call for Adam Container.
And how we've constructed,
how we've implemented this is
to overload the constructor.
So we take
We take a start and end value
and the types are short int,
fixed, float, double, point, fixed point,
etc., which are all the types
that you will need to create
QuickTime tween type atoms.
One of the things that we've done for
QuickTime for Java and QuickTime for
Java 5 is to change the implementation,
the semantics of some of
the atom container calls.
You'll notice in the insert
child we have a parent atom.
In some of the QuickTime atom
container methods,
we have actually changed the semantics
so it can actually pass in null,
so that actually this will be recognized
as being a synonym for atom zero.
That is,
the container is the parent atom.
The parent atom is the container.
and new QuickTime 5 features in
QuickTime for Java 5 are support
for the XML parser in QuickTime 5.
We've implemented this with data classes,
[Transcript missing]
You can get to these elements
by creating callbacks,
which will be called
during the parsing of XML,
so you can find out when
the document parsing starts,
when you reach a particular element.
which will allow you to use
the QuickTimes XML parser
for pretty good XML parsing.
Now I'd like to hand the stage back to
Michael Hopkins for more new features.
You guys thought we were done.
No, we still have plenty of time.
Okay,
additional new features in QuickTime 5.
There's a brand new one that's
pretty significant called Drawing
Notification Registration.
And what that allows you to do
is register for notification when
drawing and update operations occur
on objects such as a compositor,
an effects presenter,
or a movie presenter.
And this actually allows you to
do some pretty interesting things.
For example, if you aren't really
big on using time bases,
although that's also an excellent API,
you could synchronize a frame
rate to the drawing by registering
as a listener for a component.
Also, if you need to do some drawing
yourself onto an off screen
before you present that,
you could go ahead and get notification
when drawing was completed and then
do your additional drawing before
that gets rendered to the screen.
So the way this works is the listener
implements the drawing listener
interface and they override the drawing
complete method and they can put
in any code in there that they wish.
You'll also notice that they
receive the QT drawable object
that generated the message.
Within that call,
so you have access to determine its
time or what media it's presenting,
for example.
Once you've overrided that interface,
you register your listener with a
component by creating a new listener and
then adding that drawer listener to the
object that you wish to register with.
And not shown on the slide,
but additionally important,
once you're done,
you can remove yourself by
calling remove drawing listener.
So it's a powerful new
feature that we've added,
but we're not done yet.
We've added a new sizing
option in Qt Canvas,
a very strange named one called
K initial size no resize.
And for those of you who are
astute Qt Java programmers,
you may think, well,
there's already a K initial
size sizing option.
Well,
that one allowed an object contained
within a canvas within a window to
grow smaller but not increase in size.
Whereas this new sizing option,
absolutely specifies that that canvas
will not grow or shrink regardless
of what happens to its parent window.
Additionally,
we have a new interface called
standard Qt constants 5.
And oddly enough,
this represents newly defined
constants in the Qt 5 API.
And this supplements previous constants
such as the standard Qt constants 4,
which represents Qt 4 API,
and standard Qt constants,
which is Qt 3 and previous.
So anything that's in 5 is
specifically going to be in that
new standard constants 5 interface.
So hopefully at this
point nobody's confused.
We've added a lot of new
functionality in our product.
We have a brand new operating system
that we're supporting in a very,
very high fashion, and that's Mac OS X.
We've added new support for compositing,
new support for broadcasting,
new support for time base.
We've worked through a lot of new
features that are part of the 5 API.
And as such,
you as a developer may have a
lot of questions about this,
but there are good places to get answers.
The first of which is the
public mailing list that's
available for Qt Java developers.
You can go to list.apple.com and
sign up for the Qt Java list.
And that's an excellent place for you to
go out and get information or ask some
questions if you're having difficulty.
We highly encourage that because
that's a very good community for
QuickTime for Java developers.
Also,
I mentioned previously the Qt Java SDK.
We have five new examples in that SDK,
and that includes all of the
things that we've covered today.
So you can get examples
for that in that SDK.
So that's at
developer.apple.com/quicktime/qtjava.
Finally, if you want to be part
of our SEED program,
I assume everybody's a
registered developer here,
so if you want to get in on that and get
access to prereleases of our software,
please send a mail to qtjava@apple.com.
And we'll get you on that.
And we really appreciate your feedback
and find out what things are important
to you and see how we're doing.
So additionally, I would be shot dead if
I didn't plug Bill's book.
There's an excellent book called
QuickTime for Java Programming.
Well,
I'm sure all of you are aware of that.
It's an excellent book that has a
great overview of some of the concepts
that QuickTime for Java were built on,
as well as a reference in the back.
So again, we recommend that.
So at this... Bill, the publisher?
The publisher?
Morgan and Kaufman.
And you can find that on Amazon.com even,
I believe.
Okay,
so I know it's Thursday and a lot of
you feel like WWDC is almost over,
but there's still a number of
excellent sessions coming up.
We have the QuickTime feedback forum
immediately after this over in J1.
It's a good place to come bring your
constructive criticism about things
in QuickTime you'd like to see.
Additionally,
immediately after the session,
Jon Berkey is going to give
a killer Java graphics demo.
That's really important because
as QuickTime for Java developers,
you will be interacting with things
like Swing and the Java 2D API.
So those are some good things to do
if you want to learn about some of
those other ways of rendering in Java.
Additionally,
we have some excellent audio services
class in J2 here at 5 where you can learn
about the audio services on Mac OS X.
And there is, as I mentioned, a Java API.
So you can call that with Java.
And that's a great way if you're
a 10 only developer to make use of
some really advanced functionality.
Additionally, for those of you that
are deploying applets,
please see Java Security tomorrow at 9.
And then of course the Java feedback
forum tomorrow at 10:30.